docs(migrate): tuning parallel replication for Spirit workloads on binlog-based replicas (#875)
block/spirit: docs/migrate.md

The replication throttler only affects the copy-rows operation, and does not apply to changes which arrive via the replication client. This is intentional, as if replication changes can not be applied fast enough the migration will never be able to complete. On a busy system (with single-threaded or insufficiently configured parallel replication) it is possible that the changes from the replication applier may be sufficiently high that they cause the copier process to perpetually be throttled. In this case, you may have to do something more drastic for the migration to complete. In approximate order of preference, you may consider:

- Adjusting the configuration of your replicas to increase the parallel replication threads (see [Tuning parallel replication for Spirit workloads](#tuning-parallel-replication-for-spirit-workloads) below)
- Temporarily disabling durability on the replica (i.e. `SET GLOBAL sync_binlog=0` and `SET GLOBAL innodb_flush_log_at_trx_commit=0`)
- Increasing the `replica-max-lag` or disabling replica lag checking temporarily

#### Tuning parallel replication for Spirit workloads

> Spirit's row-copier copies each chunk inside a single `INSERT IGNORE INTO _<table>_new (...) SELECT ... FROM <table> WHERE <pk range>` transaction (default up to 4 in flight, each sized to a `--target-chunk-time` of 500ms). Each one lands in the binlog as a single multi-row transaction — that is what creates the head-of-line-blocking opportunity under `COMMIT_ORDER`: the replica's parallel workers serialize behind that transaction, so a busy table with many indexes can drive the replica lag into the multi-hour range even when the source has spare CPU. Two MySQL 8.0+ replication settings make a large difference for this workload:

Reviewer: This is only true by default (unbuffered row copier). Rather than mention this maybe generalize it to say the copier threads are parallel and disjoint, and so they make good use of WRITESET extraction.

Author: fair point - ive made the changes now.. hope this is ok now..

The replication throttler only affects the copy-rows operation, and does not apply to changes which arrive via the replication client. This is intentional, as if replication changes can not be applied fast enough the migration will never be able to complete. On a busy system (with single-threaded or insufficiently configured parallel replication) it is possible that the changes from the replication applier may be sufficiently high that they cause the copier process to perpetually be throttled. In this case, you may have to do something more drastic for the migration to complete. In approximate order of preference, you may consider:

- Adjusting the configuration of your replicas to increase the parallel replication threads (see [Tuning parallel replication for Spirit workloads](#tuning-parallel-replication-for-spirit-workloads) below)
- Temporarily disabling durability on the replica (i.e. `SET GLOBAL sync_binlog=0` and `SET GLOBAL innodb_flush_log_at_trx_commit=0`)
- Increasing the `replica-max-lag` or disabling replica lag checking temporarily

#### Tuning parallel replication for Spirit workloads

> Spirit's row-copier runs multiple chunks in parallel (default up to 4 in flight, each sized to a `--target-chunk-time` of 500ms), and each chunk covers a **disjoint primary-key range** of the source table. Every chunk lands in the binlog as its own multi-row transaction, and because the ranges are disjoint the chunks have no row-level write conflicts with each other. That is exactly the workload writeset-based dependency tracking is designed to parallelize on the replica — under the default `COMMIT_ORDER` scheduling, however, the replica's parallel workers must serialize on source commit order, so a busy table with many indexes can drive replica lag into the multi-hour range even when the source has spare CPU. Two MySQL 8.0+ replication settings make a large difference for this workload:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Spirit's row-copier runs multiple chunks in parallel (default up to 4 in flight, each sized to a `--target-chunk-time` of 500ms), and each chunk covers a **disjoint primary-key range** of the source table. Every chunk lands in the binlog as its own multi-row transaction, and because the ranges are _disjoint_ the chunks have no row-level write conflicts with each other.

This workload is exactly the right shape to execute in parallel on replicas, but under MySQL 8.0 defaults (`COMMIT_ORDER` scheduling) there is minimum parallelism, and it requires the following configuration changes:

```
